---
title: 'Neuro-blog genesis'
date: 2019-09-06
description: A short explanation of why on earth am I even doing this! 
featured_image: '/images/art/firstpost.jpg'
---



## Neuro-blog genesis

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is it. The first post. I was thinking about creating this blog for over a year now and nothing was more difficult than to make this first step. I have thousands of doubts related to this project such as is anyone going to read this? What if I’ll misquote some study and make a fool out of myself? What about my writing skills? English is not my first language. Despite these fears and anxieties, it’s not at all about the number of entries or my self-esteem/identity. So why though? Why would I “put myself out there” instead of indulging in a “Drag Race” marathon? 

It’s the 21st century and I live in time when quite a few people question vaccines, are sexist, homophobic and racist, believe in a variety of conspiracy theories or alternative medicine. It’s ok to have your own beliefs and I respect it. However, it’s often a case that people act upon their beliefs and as a result could affect other people’s life. Analysing your beliefs and putting them under scrutiny should become a habit. The society is getting wealthier, more educated and we live in “the best of all possible worlds”. Yet, we’re still facing lots of pressing issues such as climate change, an ageing population, poverty or gender inequality. Some of them will take lots of time and resources to solve, often beyond our means. Some we could improve by altering our behaviour and applying some critical thinking to our worldview. 

>I hope that in this blog I could explain some aspects of humans’ behaviours originating from our amazing but very much overrated organ - brain. 

As you’re about to find out from one of the future articles, we are after all simple organisms running on associations and assumptions. Although according to some studies, knowledge about our biases won’t necessarily prevent them, I strongly believe that getting some insight into our instincts would improve our understanding and empathy towards other people. In the current state of the world, many countries are polarised. There’s hostility and lack of respect to the “other side” and leaders are only emphasising these divisions because it’s easier to rule a divided nation.  If only we could face reality with a bit of critical thinking and scientific approach, we would create a more accepting and stronger society. 

That’s why I’m doing it. Wish me luck and enjoy future posts!  

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
